All right, which resources
will be allowed with following
content Content Security Policy header?
Is it A, a script like a local script,
B, fetching from api.website.com,
a font face with fonts, or
like just loading local fonts?
I'll just say it like that.
A data URI image, an inline style,
an iframe that embeds
from embed.example.com,
a stylesheet from fonts.googleapis.com, or
a video from videos.example.com?
All right, so let's look at the answer.
The answer is we can only
load our local scripts and
the stylesheet from
fonts.googleapis dot com.
So with a Content Security Policy header,
we can control where our website
can load resources from.
So we can do this for
scripts, images, fonts,
stylesheets, video,
audio embedded content, iframes,
web and service workers, fetch and
web sockets, and form submissions.
Now by default here,
we say default-src none.
So this basically sets everything to none.
We can not load any resources,
not even local resources, nothing,
we cannot do anything.
But we can override this with,
in this case,
a script-src, sorry about that,
which I set it to self, very subtle.
So in this case, we're saying scripts
can only be loaded from the same origin,
from our website,
not from any other location.
Then we set script-src to self, so
we can load images from the same origin,
but also from the example.com domain.
We set the style-src only
to fonts.googleapis.com.
So it can only fetch from
fonts.googleapis.com,
not from your own fonts,
no, only from that domain.
And then the style sheet, sorry,
it says CSS from there, and
then the fonts from gstatic or
fonts.gstatic.com.
So also not from self,
just from fonts.gstatic.
So if we now compare that,
first we have, well, our local scripts.
And this is allowed because
we have the script-src self.
So we just said that it's okay to load
resources from the same origin or
yeah, from your own website.
That's totally fine.
But then we make a fetch
request to api.website.com, but
we have the connect src still to none
because we didn't specify any overrides.
So it defaulted back to that default-src.
So that'll be blocked by
the Content Security Policy.
Same for font-face, we only set okay, you
can load fonts from fonts.gstatic.com but
not from your own fonts,
not from your own domain.
So this one gets blocked.
For images, this is a bit deceiving cuz
you think, okay, it's a data image,
is this self, it's not.
So with image-src,
you need to then define the data.
You need to add the data
attributes image-src to allow
these base 64 images as well.
So this one is blocked because we don't
have that data in the CSP policy.
Then we have inline styles also not
allowed because we only specify that
styles we come from fonts.googleapis.com,
and this includes inline styles.
Then we have iframes, frame-src is none,
so we cannot embed anything.
Finally, we have stylesheet.
This is allowed because we're fetching
it from fonts.googleapis.com so
that domain is allowed.
And then lastly, we have video, which is
the media-src, we also set that to none.
So this one will be blocked.
Yeah, I'll just keep it on this one.
So yeah, the Content Security Policy is
just a great way to really fully control
where a website can load
resources from to prevent any
attacks like cross-site scripting,
all that kind of stuff.
Especially important when
you're working at the bank or
anything that uses very sensitive data.
Making sure that if you know exactly
where your resources are coming from,
setting up a Content Security Policy,
either in like a metatag or as a response
header is a great way to ensure that
your website is a bit more secure, yes.